Add new blog about vivliostyle book-e (#136)
vivliostyle/vivliostyle.org: _posts/2023-05-10-vivliostyle-book.md

---
title: A book explaining Vivliostyle is released!
lang: en
image: /assets/posts/2023-05-10-vivliostyle-book/fig-1.png
author: ogwata
tags:
  - release
---
<div style="float: right; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;"><img src="/assets/posts/2023-05-10-vivliostyle-book/fig-1.png" alt="Cover of Vivliostyle book" style="width: 500px; box-shadow: 10px 10px 20px 5px grey;" /></div>

 (The original article is [Vivliostyleの解説本が発売！](https://vivliostyle.org/ja/blog/2023/05/10/vivliostyle-book/)in Japanese) 

> ## A book that describes what you can do with CSS Typesetting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## A book that describes what you can do with CSS typesetting
```

> The first book which explained Vivliostyle, “Making books with web technologies: Introduction to CSS typesetting and Vivliostyle” will be published commercially (a link to the e-bookstores is at the end of the text). The author is [Yuichiro Otsu](https://twitter.com/arinoth) of Libro Works, an editing production company with a strong IT background. Mr. Otsu has been a speaker at our "Vivliostyle User / Dev Meetup" events many times.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first book which explained Vivliostyle, “Making books with web technologies: Introduction to CSS typesetting and Vivliostyle” is published commercially (a link to the e-bookstores is at the end of this article). The author is [Yuichiro Otsu](https://twitter.com/arinoth) of LibroWorks, an editing production company with a strong IT background. Mr. Otsu has been a speaker at our "Vivliostyle User / Dev Meetup" events many times.
```

- 1章 VivliostyleとCSS組版
    - 1節 CSS組版ってどんなもの？
    - 2節 Vivliostyleってどんなもの？
    - 3節 Vivliostyleを導入する
- 2章 CSS組版ハンズオン
    - 1節 大まかな紙面を設計する
    - 2節 フォントを設定する
    - 3節 見出しのスタイルと改ページ調整
    - 4節 紙面上の要素を細かく調整する
    - 5節 PDFを書き出す
- 3章 MarkdownとVFM
    - 1節 Markdownは難しくない！
    - 2節 Markdownの書き方
    - 3節 HTMLや数式を混ぜて書く
    - 4節 知っておくと便利な原稿執筆Tips
- 4章 Vivliostyle CLI
    - 1節 複数のファイルを連結する
    - 2節 Vivliostyle CLIのさまざまな機能
- 5章 CSS組版テクニック集
    - 1節 まずはここから！　必須の基本技
    - 2節 難易度中！　ちょっと高度なテクニック
    - 3節 難易度高め！　いろいろ組み合わせた複合技
- 6章 入稿データを作る
    - 1節 印刷のための最低限の基礎知識
    - 2節 Vivliostyleのみを利用した入稿
    - 3節 DTPソフトを組み合わせた入稿
- 7章 Vivliostyle Pub
    - 1節 Vivliostyle Pubの概要

This book begins with an overview of CSS typesetting and Vivliostyle, which makes it possible, in Chapter 1, followed by an explanation of CSS for CSS typesetting in Chapter 2, and then the actual writing of Vivliostyle Markdown (Vivliostyle Flavored Markdown) in Chapter 3. In other words, if you have read this far, you will have a practical understanding of how to create a book using Markdown and CSS typesetting.

## Generous disclosure of techniques unique to CSS typesetting

> However, the true heart of this book is chapters 5 and 6, where the mastery of CSS typesetting really comes into its own. I was very surprised to see how far CSS typesetting can take you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, the true heart of this book is chapters 5 and 6, where the mastery of CSS typesetting really comes into its own. I was very surprised to see how far CSS typesetting can take us.
```
